[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANTHONY ROBBINS: I look for
alkaline foods, alive foods,
what I call water-rich foods.
That means the water
is still in them.
The aliveness is still there.
It's not all cooked out.
>>WOODY HARRELSON: Enzymes are
the life force of the food.
When you cook anything over
118 degrees for one minute,
it destroys all of the enzymes
and most of the nutritional
value of the food.
There go the saying, like David
Wolfe, the raw food lexicon,
is that cooked food
is poison, because it
becomes something toxic
for the body to deal with.
>>KARYN CALABRESE: Microwave
oven food is the worst.
I mean, it is by far--
our bodies do not recognize
the structure of the proteins
that the food is changed to.
There's no digestive
enzymes produced because you
don't smell the food.
You don't see the food.
So cooked foods really take
on a very destructive--
but they're also extremely
acidic and extremely addictive.
So once you start
eating cooked foods,
you want more and more and more.
And to break the
cycle, you really
need to do a detox or a cleanse.
It really is very
beneficial in helping
to break that cycle of
craving the cooked foods.
>>DAVID WOLFE: When you have
the food in its raw condition,
you have more nutrients present.
You have more
vitamin C. You have
more minerals that
are available,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
>>JOEL FUHRMAN: To have
to be in good health,
we want to eat a diet
that's higher in nutrients
and low in calories.
That means you have
to eat foods that
are largely high-nutrient
low-calorie foods.
Well, the foods that
are highest in nutrients
are green vegetables, tomatoes,
berries, oranges, carrots.
And you're going to get
a diet higher in fiber,
higher in high nutrients, higher
and phytochemicals, right.
It's going to get--
it's automatically not
going to be acid forming.
It's going to take
all those features
that people that each
fed diet looks at or all
put together when you eat a
diet that's very nutrient-dense.
>>BRIAN CLEMENT: What we've
unveiled in our research
is that there are four major
components in raw living
food that make them
viable for healing
and prevention of disease.
First are hormones,
second is oxygen,
third is phytonutrients,
and fourth is enzymes.
Here, we've coined
the phrase, HOPE.
It's a new era of
nutritional hope,
and that's why living
food is superior.
And it makes you live longer as
well as prevent and eliminate
disorder.
>>MIKE ADAMS: I mean,
think about pharmaceuticals
for a moment.
They are one isolated
chemical extract,
a synthesized chemical,
usually something
that never appears in
nature and certainly
doesn't appear in
that concentration
and in that isolation.
Pharmaceuticals then become
like poisons to the human body.
And the side
effects that you see
are just the effects
of the poison.
But in nature, you never see
a chemical isolated like that.
In a plant, you
might have hundreds
of different phytochemicals.
I mean, consider the
natural medicines
that are really in raw foods.
These are medicines
synthesized by nature.
They're like little-plant
based pharmaceuticals,
but they're built
by mother nature,
not by some
pharmaceutical laboratory.
Well, these are
naturally biocompatible
with the human body.
So when you take
those in, you get
healthy because the plant
actually built those medicines
to keep itself healthy.
And they all work in concert.
There's a synergistic healing
effect of those nutrients.
You don't get that
from a drug, but you
do get that when
you eat raw foods,
or you drink a
raw food smoothie.
You get those hundreds of
different nutrients working
in concert to heal your body
and to essentially activate
that healing potential
that's built into your body.
>> Working with hundreds
of thousands of people now,
we've developed a quite keen
understanding on what makes
the anatomy of the body function
and the immune system protect
you.
We've seen thousands, then
of thousands of people,
recover from
catastrophic disease.
And it primarily comes on a
dietary level from a green food
diet with either the total
elimination or short term
elimination of all fruits and a
lot of nutrition from sprouts.
Sprouts are 10 to 30
times more nutritious
than the best organic vegetable
that you pick wash and eat.
An average sprout like clover
is 10 times more nutritious,
something like wheat grass
or sunflower greens, 30 times
more nutritious.
>> KIRT TYSON: One of the
leaders in the raw food
movement is Victoria Boutenko.
Her family's recovering
from multiple illnesses
is a nutritional success story.
>>BRIAN CLEMENT: As
you probably know,
my family became ill
about 14 years ago.
Everybody in my
family became so ill
that the doctors told us
we don't have any hope.
And I will soon die, and
my husband will soon die,
and our children
will be miserable.
>>VICTORIA BOUTENKO: And
I was only 38-years-old,
and I didn't want to die.
And I didn't want my
children to be miserable,
so I decided to look
for alternative.
And I was searching and
searching and searching,
and I didn't give up.
And finally, I
discovered raw food.
And within three
and a half months,
my family ran 10 kilometer
race, Bolder Boulder.
And we were feeling better
and better and better.
About seven years into raw food
diet, we reached a plateau.
When everybody in
my family stopped
feeling better and
better and better,
we actually stopped improving.
And then several months later,
we started to fall backwards.
We started to develop
some unwanted symptoms
of not perfect health.
Everybody in my family developed
at least one wart, which
is a symptom of low immunity.
And I was thinking
how in the world?
We're on a raw food diet
that got us rid of all
these horrible illnesses.
How in the world we
could have low immunity?
It's impossible.
Now we're eating better than
seven years ago because we now
eat all organic, mostly local.
And we now know things
like food combining.
I decided that I need to
figure out what's going on,
what's missing.
So I wrote the letter and sent
it to all raw food experts
that I knew about in the world.
And I got answers
from almost everybody
saying, yes, only we
reached the plateau
much sooner than you did.
Then I asked them next
question, so what do you do?
One person say, I now
drink goat's milk.
Another person says, I add
20% cooked food to my diet.
Another person says I add
this and this supplement.
And all of them saying
different things.
Then I send him again
a letter saying, well,
does it work for you?
And everybody
responded, not really.
[LAUGHTER]
We're actually yo-yoing
back and forth,
still looking for a solution.
We still didn't find our balance
that something was missing.
It's like a puzzle that
didn't make no sense.
I knew that in my family that
was a raw food diet that helped
us to get rid of our illnesses.
And now, it was the
same diet, even better
but now we were
feeling less healthy.
We did not get asthma
back, but we did not
get our sickness better, but
it was still not perfect.
I decided I have to make
my own research because I
like puzzles.
I always have collections
of puzzles in my home.
So what I did,
first it made a list
of USDA-recommended
nutrition that humans
have to consume in
order to be healthy.
Then I listed all the foods
that exist in the world,
including meats and
dairy, everything.
I wanted to be objective.
And then I started
to play around
with this nutritional
compounds, trying
to create what would
be the variations
of perfect human diet
that will satisfy
human nutritional needs.
And I suddenly discovered that
there was really not so much
food that is very healthy.
Most of the foods have something
1, something 2, and then
everything else is missing.
Like, for example, meats
have complex proteins,
but it has zero vitamin c, zero
fiber, zero antioxidants, just
really, really nothing else.
And that was like
this until I found
one food that was different.
When I found this food, it
appeared that it's like puzzle,
fitting human nutrition
is perfect-like.
It was like, wow.
And that was greens.
Then greens, they match
human nutrition so perfectly.
They have in them
absolutely everything
we need, except the one
thing, except a vitamin B12.
Everything else is in there.
Essential vitamins,
these are vitamins
means that our body
needs to be healthy.
Greens have all of them.
That's what we need to have.
That's what kale has.
That's what the weeds have.
Essential minerals, that's
what we need to have.
That's what kale has.
That's what the weeds have.
Essential amino acid acids,
that's what we need to have.
That's what weeds have.
That's what we need to have.
That's with kale has.
For comparison, I
placed here apples.
Apples and carrots have
approximately similar content
of essential amino acids.
And that explains--
if you look at here--
apples have some
protein, but not a lot.
And it explains why the
vegetables and fruits
are considered general,
not really great source
of amino acids
because they were not
considering greens
as a really a source
because greens are
not very popular.
Not many people eat greens.
If you look at
greens the numbers,
the digits are the
same or bigger.
Like, here, we
have three digits.
Here, we have three
and four digits.
In apples, we have
two or one digit.
So we see there was
a big difference.
And essential fatty acids.
So greens have
absolutely everything.
And yes, all the most experts
in nutrition in the world
say, you need to eat
dark green vegetables.
But nobody says how much.
Nobody says you need to
have five cups a day.
You need to have 10 cups a day.
You need to have one cups a day.
All they say is the more
you can, as much as you can.
Then I decided to look
in the animal kingdom
and to find an animal that
is the closest to humans
and see what these animals eat.
And I discovered chimpanzee
because chimpanzees share
with humans 99.4 the
same sequences of genes.
I made this diagram that
shows that chimpanzees consume
half of their diet of fruits.
And the other almost
complete half are greens.
So chimpanzees consume
a lot of greens.
And they also consume
some seeds and some bark.
And they consume a
little bit of insects.
Then I made a chart of
a typical American diet.
And can you find two differences
in between these two charts?
[CHUCKLES] They're
quite different.
They're like opposite.
This is a nutritious food,
low-calorie, nutritious.
This is high-calorie,
low nutrition.